First draft of rfc9 (#16)
interNFT/nft-rfc: nft_rfc_009.md

arbitrary digital or real-world resources to be verifiably, but privately, associated with
the digital asset, which is the IID Subject.
When referring to an IID, it is implicit that this identifies an on-chain asset. This constraint has the advantage that IID's are self-referential. Which overcomes the HTTP Range14 problem of DIDs which refer to resources that cannot be located at an end-point, such as a physical object. DID Methods which conform to this IID specification MUST resolve to a uniquely identified digital asset, within a unique blockchain namespace.
Any software application using DIDs which conform to the W3C DID-Core
specification SHOULD be able to operate with IIDs and IID documents.
Although some IID-specific features may require additional support. For instance, to dereference Linked Resources.

Introduction
============

Identifiers are needed to refer to both on-chain and off-chain
resources. On-chain digital assets require a cryptographically secure
mechanisms for referring to the asset and to prove control or ownership of the asset,
without reliance on a trusted third party.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
All on-chain digital assets MUST have a unique identifier which can be dereferenced to locate the asset as a resource located in a specific chain namespace.
```

﻿﻿---
nft-rfc: 6
title: NFT Identifiers
stage: draft
category: NFT/METADATA
author: Joe Andrieu @jandrieu
created: 2021-03-18
modified: 
---

Abstract
========

Interchain Identifiers (IIDs) are a family of DID methods for

> blockchain-based assets such as tokens, smart contracts, and addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specifically designed to refer to on-chain assets, such as NFTs, fungible tokens, namespace records and wallets.
```

Built on Decentralized Identifiers from the World Wide Web Consortium

> [[1]](#ref1), IIDs are 100% conformant DIDs; IIDs ***are*** DIDs and IID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[1]](#ref1), IIDs are fully conformant DIDs and therefore ***are*** DIDs. IID
```

> documents are DID documents. The IID specification also provides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documents are DID documents. The IID specification provides
```

> additional features designed for on-chain assets, such as the ability to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
additional features which are purpose-designed for describing and interacting with on-chain assets. Such as Linked Resources, which enable
```

> verifiably yet privately associate arbitrary digital or real-world

Reviewer: ```suggestion
arbitrary digital or real-world resources to be verifiably, but privately, associated with
```

> assets with the underlying IID Subject. IIDs also constrain compatible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the digital asset, which is the IID Subject.
```

> DID methods in particular ways, including a restriction on the DID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When referring to an IID, it is implicit that this identifies an on-chain asset. This constraint has the advantage that IID's are self-referential. Which overcomes the HTTP Range14 problem of DIDs which refer to resources that cannot be located at an end-point, such as a physical object. DID Methods which conform to this IID specification MUST resolve to a uniquely identified digital asset, within a unique blockchain namespace.
```

> Subject---IID Subjects MUST be on-chain resources. Any DID method that

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> meets the requirements in this specification ***is*** an IID method, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> its IIDs ***are*** DIDs. Any DID software that is conformant to the W3C

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any software application using DIDs which conform to the W3C DID-Core
```

> specification SHOULD be able to work with IIDs and IID documents,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specification SHOULD be able to operate with IIDs and IID documents.
```

> although some IID-specific features may require additional support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although some IID-specific features may require additional support. For instance, to dereference Linked Resources.
```

Introduction
============

Identifiers are needed to refer to both on-chain and off-chain

> resources. Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) require a cryptographically secure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resources. On-chain digital assets require a cryptographically secure
```

> means to both refer to specific tokens and prove control or ownership

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mechanisms for referring to the asset and to prove control or ownership of the asset,
```

without reliance on a trusted third party.

> 

Reviewer: All on-chain digital assets MUST have a unique identifier which can be dereferenced to locate the asset as a resource located in a specific chain namespace.

> We refer to this new class of identifiers as Interchain Identifiers, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We refer to this new class of identifiers as Interchain Identifiers (IIDs).
```

> IIDs for short. We propose this new identifier would be appropriate for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interchain Identifiers SHOULD be appropriate for
```

> any on-chain asset, including smart contracts, fungible tokens, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
identifying and referring to any on-chain asset. Including smart contracts, fungible tokens,
```

> non-fungible tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
non-fungible tokens, namespace records, and wallets.
```

> IIDs build on a foundation of global identifiers dating back to Uniform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IIDs build on a foundation of Internet identifiers, dating back to Uniform
```

Resource Locators and Uniform Resource Identifiers [[2]](#ref2), which are the

> foundation of the World Wide Web. URLs and URIs allow for different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
foundation of the World Wide Web. URIs allow for different
```

> schemes that specify particular mechanisms for interpreting and applying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to specify the mechanisms for interpreting and applying
```

the rest of the identifier. For example,
```http://example.com``` specifies a web-based resource that can be 
retrieved using the hypertext transfer protocol (http) and ```
mailto:joe@example.com``` specifies a resource that can receive email
messages using the SMTP protocol.

IIDs are Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs), which build on URIs and URLs 

> to provide a class of identifiers one can verify without reliance on a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to provide a class of identifiers which can verified without reliance on a
```

trusted third party. DIDs specifically support cryptographic

> verification methods like public/private key cryptography on any number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
verification methods, such as public-private cryptographic keys derived from any number
```

> of curves, which in turn are used for verification relationships like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of curves. These keys are used to establish verification relationships for the purpose of
```

> authentication, assertion, capability delegation, and capability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authentication, assertion, capability delegation, or capability
```

> invocation. When one uses a DID for those relationships, a verifying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
invocation. A DID Method establishes these verification relationships in a way that each cryptographic method is associated with its specific purpose. 
```

> party can use cryptographic material associated with the DID to verify

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> the use is appropriate. DID-URLs extend the base DID syntax to support 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DID-URLs extend the base DID syntax to support 
```

```/path```, ```?query```, and ```#fragment``` parts. IIDs use the 

> ```/path``` and ```#fragment``` parts of URLs to refer to IID References 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```/path``` and ```#fragment``` parts of URLs for IID References 
```

and IID Resources.

> We describe how IIDs and DIDs relate in section [IIDs as DIDs](#IIDs-as-DIDs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relationship between IIDs and DIDs is further described in the [IIDs as DIDs](#IIDs-as-DIDs) section.
```

IIDs also provide a consistent, verifiable approach for referring to

> off-chain resources, whether digital, real-world, or conceptual. In this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
off-chain resources. Whether these resources are digital, physical, or conceptual. To achieve this
```

> role, IIDs rely on content-based identifiers and content-based

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IID methods SHOULD use content-based identifiers and content-based
```

> addressing systems, where a hash of the digital asset is used to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
addressing systems, in which a hash of linked resource is used to
```

> unambiguously verify the asset is the intended resource. Standards like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unambiguously verify the resource. Standards such as
```

multihash [\[3\]](#ref3) provide for a wide range of different hash algorithms

> and representations. Approaches using merkle trees can turn hashes into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and representations.
```

> a hashgraphs, allowing an arbitrary number of resources to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using mechanisms such as Hashgraphs enables an arbitrary number of verifiable resources to be linked to a digital asset, without even revealing the number of resources.
```

> independently verified without revealing even the number of those assets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> publicly. These content identifiers can provide robust verifiability no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Content Identifiers (CIDs) provide robust verifiability and enable resources to be addressed without path-dependency. These mechanisms enable rich data to be associated with digital resources, without compromising privacy.
```

> matter where such resources might be located or retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Specifically for NFTs, IIDs allow you to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementing IIDs allows tokenized digital assets to be:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Identify individual NFTs as well as their token class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Identified as unique digital assets that belong to a specific class of tokens. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 2. Identify resources associated with that NFT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Linked to verifiable on-chain and off-chain resources.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 3. Exercise rights related to those resources using cryptography anchored to the NFT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Accorded rights in relation to both the token and its linked resources. Including executable rights, which may be issued and delegated off-chain using a mechanism such as Authorization Capabilities (zCaps), to access, invoke and transact with specific on-chain or off-chain services.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> IIDs allow these functions a manner that addresses the privacy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Afforded privacy in relation to the token's metadata. Including what the token represents, the associated services which can be invoked, and the resources which are linked to the token.
```

> requirements for such references, with flexible support for use cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> that need to make different choices. Our approach offers a robust,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> flexible, and capable identifier mechanism for NFTs, and on-chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> assets, of all types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Use Cases
=========

> This specification was designed for Non-Fungible Tokens. NFT-RFC-002

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IID specification was designed to address the requirements for Non-Fungible Token (NFT) use-cases, which are described in NFT-RFC-002.
```

> [[4]](#ref4) describes the range of types of tokens as well as several detailed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[4]](#ref4).
```

> user stories covered by this work. NFT-RFC-008 [[5]](#ref5) describes how one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specific use-case of tokenizing Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs), described in NFT-RFC-008 [[5]](#ref5) demonstrates how IIDs can be used together with DID-related W3C specifications for
```

> might apply IIDs, Verifiable Credentials, and Authorization Capabilities to define,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verifiable Credentials (VCs) and Authorization Capabilities (zCaps), to define a class of tokens (REC-2021),
```

> authorize, issue, use, and sell NFT-based Renewable Energy Certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authorize the issuance of verifiable credentials, verify claims of renewable energy production, and then mint and trade Renewable Energy Certificates as NFTs. With accorded rights and linked resources.
```

> (RECs) according to an REC 2021 standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Throughout this document we use the REC2021 use case for examples. In summary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout this document we use the REC2021 use case for examples. 
In summary:
```

1. The UN creates a token template for RECs.
2. The UN publishes that token template, resuling in an IID for the new class.
2. The UN uses a WebKMS system so that it can delegate the ability to sign Verifiable
Credentials.
3. The UN defines a vocabulary for Certification Reports and Verification Reports as
Verifiable Credentials
4. The UN delegates the ability to create Verification Reports (with certain constraints)
to known, qualified verifiers.
5. The UN delegates

>    a) the ability to create Certification Reports (with certain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a) the capability to create Certification Reports (with certain
```

constraints) and

>    b) the ability to mint REC2021 tokens (with certain constraints)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   b) the capability to mint REC2021 tokens (with certain constraints)
```
